NXDOC-2059: Cloud doc (#1457)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nuxeo-cloud/day-to-day/deployment.md

---
title: Deployment
review:
    comment: ''
    date: '06-19-2020'
    status: ok
labels:
    - nuxeo-cloud
tree_item_index: 300
toc: true
---

> ## Concept

Reviewer: change to "Deployment Overview"

> - **Monitored & Controlled**: The Nuxeo Cloud Operations (NCO) team deploys ALL changes and updates to pre-prod and prod environments

Reviewer: Replace all of these bullet points with the following text

The Nuxeo Cloud team deploys all changes to Production and Pre-Production Environments via Marketplace Packages. 

JIRA deployment requests should be submitted up to 2 days before the change is required. The request should also include when the deployment should take place. 

Some important notes regarding deployments
- Snapshot or Date-Based Releases are NOT allowed. The Nuxeo Cloud Team only deploys production ready code
- Marketplace Package versions should be used. The Nuxeo Cloud team will NOT deploy the same Marketplace Package to the same environment multiple times

Nuxeo Cloud has Standard Maintenance Windows for all of our Production and Pre-Production Environments. The standard maintenance windows are used to make changes to minimize impact to users. 

The standard 7 days a week US, EU and Japan maintenance windows are identified below.

US: 12AM - 2AM EST
EU: 12AM CET - 2AM CET
Japan 12AM JST - 2AM JST

- **Fast**: Requests typically completed within 1-2 days

- **Follow Nuxeo Best Practices**: Deployments done via Marketplace Packages so that our automation process is easily used across all projects
  - NO Snapshots of Date-Based Releases: only production ready code
  - DO NOT deploy the same Marketplace Package to the same environment multiple times

- **Use Maintenance Windows / Minimize Impact**: Deployments done during standard maintenance windows unless otherwise specified to minimize potential impact to users.

> ## Deploy My Configuration

Reviewer: change to "Deployment Requests"

> The Nuxeo Cloud Operations (NCO) team will deploy all changes and updates to the pre-prod and prod environments. All deployments are done via Marketplace packages.

Reviewer: change this section to be

All Nuxeo Cloud Deployments require a JIRA Support Ticket (SUPNXP) to be created with a ticket type of “Nuxeo Cloud Deployment” that provides the following information:
- Name and Link to the correct version of the Marketplace Package
- Required 3rd Party Services or SSO services (e.g. FFMPEG, ImageMagick, Okta, etc.)
- Nuxeo Conf Updates corresponding to packages or 3rd party services
- The Date and Time of the deployment including time zone, which can be done outside of established maintenance windows

Info: Nuxeo Cloud requires a Date and Time for all Deployment Requests, this includes identifying the standard maintenance window as the deployment time.

The cloud team typically complete deployment requests within 1 day of the ticket being submitted.

Each Cloud Deployment requires a **JIRA SUPNXP** to be created with a ticket type of **Nuxeo Cloud Deployment** that provides the following information:
- Name and Link to the Marketplace Package (MP) with the correct version
- 3rd Party Services or SSO services required (e.g. FFMPEG, ImageMagick, Okta, etc.)
- Nuxeo Conf Updates corresponding to packages or 3rd party services
- Identify the requested Date and Time (include time zone) of deployment.
  - The cloud team will NOT perform a deployment until a date/time has been provided.
  - These can be done outside of maintenance windows.

{{#> callout type='info'}}
The Cloud team WON'T perform a deployment until a date/time has been provided. Especially if the deployment request is to be performed outside of the standard maintenance window.
{{/callout}}

> ## Customization

Reviewer: change to "Nuxeo Studio + Private Marketplace Packages"

> Customers have access to [Nuxeo Studio]({{page version='' space='studio' page='nuxeo-studio'}}) to configure their business logic and data model and to define the list of packages (including custom) that are required.

Reviewer: change to " Nuxeo Cloud customers have access to Nuxeo Studio to configure their business logic, data model and define the public or private packages that are required."

The Private Marketplace is available to customers for custom Java development.

> The NCO team validates and deploys all packages to hosted production and pre-prod environments via marketplace packages.

Reviewer: remove this

> If necessary, additional Nuxeo teams (e.g. professional services) can provide support for the creation and deployment of any required configuration or customization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud Customers have the option to purchase Nuxeo Professional Service engagements to provide support for the development of additional configuration or customization changes.
```

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: we can remove this section
